MR-2613: endpoint docs (#1207)
CMSgov/managed-care-review: docs/technical-design/endpoints.md

> # Endpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to create a new endpoint
```
Can you also change the title of this file to be a bit clearer its a how to not a comprehensive list of available endpoints.

There are two ways that we create endpoints in our app. One uses GraphQL, the other creates AWS Lambda handlers.

> When we want to fetch or update information relevant to the app itself--think of submissions, or user info--we'll typically use GraphQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**When we want to fetch or update information relevant to the app itself--think of submissions, or user info--we'll typically use GraphQL.**
```

Reviewer: Bolded these lines for emphasis --  I feel like in a long doc it can be easy to miss the key points. I feel like these two sentences are really the key point if you come here wondering "what should I do" lol.

> When we want to communicate with a service like New Relic, download a file, or, for example, to set up a health-check endpoint, we'll use a handler. The relative merits of each approach should become clear below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**When we want to communicate with a service like New Relic, download a file, or, for example, to set up a health-check endpoint, we'll use a handler.** 

The relative merits of each approach should become clear below.
```

We need to give our operation a name; let's use `dataExport`. Our query might look like this.

```graphql
query dataExport {
    dataExport {
        name
    }
}
```

`query` is the _operation type_. It's used to retrieve data. (We could also have a `mutation`, to change data, or a `subscription`, which is like a websocket, in that it maintains a connection to keep piping changing data.)

`dataExport` is the _operation name_.

We're telling GraphQL that we want a query called dataExport, which returns a field called "name".

#### The domain model

We use Typescript in our app, so all the data flowing from GraphQL through the api layer to the front end must also have a type. We keep the types that are shared between the api layer and the front end in our domain models.

_**Create a new domain model in `/app-api/src/domain-models/DataExport.ts`**_ Put the following type in it.

```typescript
export type DataExportType = {
    name: string | undefined
}
```

You can think of this as the mirror-image of the GraphQL query, but for the application code.

### Retrieving from the database

#### The Prisma query

Now let's get the data that we want.

> _**Create a new file: `/app-api/src/postgres/dataExport.ts`**_. We use Prisma to query the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_**Create a new file: `/app-api/src/postgres/dataExport.ts`**_. We use [Prisma to query the database](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-client/relation-queries).
```

```typescript
import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client'
import { DataExportType } from '../domain-models/DataExport'

export async function dataExport(
    client: PrismaClient
): Promise<DataExportType | undefined> {
    const result = await client.state.findFirst()
    if (result === undefined) {
        return undefined
    }
    return {
        name: result?.name,
    }
}
```

Recall the `schema.prisma` file. We're saying, in the `State` model (`client.state`, in this snippet), get the first record. From that result, give us the `name` field, and we'll assign it to a key of `name` in the object that we return. (Note that our object key can be whatever we want (as long as it matches the types we just made). It doesn't have to match the property name from the result, but in many cases that will make the most sense.)

Also note that here we need the DataExportType that we just created in the domain model.

> #### Adding our method to the store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Adding our method to the Store

We handle the database actions through an exported "Store", rather than calling the methods directly.
```
Do you think this kind of change could be helpful? Not sure if it adds clarity or not.

Once we've defined this Prisma method, we can add it to our store, which will in turn make it available to our resolvers.
_**Go to `/app-api/src/postgres/postgresStore.ts`**_.
We'll import both the Prisma query we just made, as well as the domain-model type we created earlier.

```typescript
import { dataExport } from './dataExport'
import { DataExportType } from '../domain-models/DataExport'
```

Next we'll add a new method both to the `Store` type, and the `NewPostgresStore`. First, in the type:

```typescript
dataExport: () => Promise<DataExportType | undefined>
```

And then in the NewPostgresStore:

```typescript
dataExport: () => dataExport(client),
```

When we access the store in our app, the dataExport method we defined above will be available to us.

### Creating the resolver

> We use Apollo Client to interface with our data source and to provide information from the store to the front-end; the methods to do that are called "resolvers".  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use Apollo Client to interface with our data source and to provide information from the store to the front-end; the methods to do that are called ["resolvers"](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/data/resolvers/).  
```

        if (name === undefined) {
            return {
                name: undefined,
            }
        }
        return name
    }
}
```

The method we just put on the store gets called here. It will return the result of client.state.findFirst() that we defined above. The return type of `QueryResolvers['dataExport']` is a little mysterious. `QueryResolvers` is a generated file that will include the resolver we're defining here. We'll go over how to generate `QueryResolvers` a little further down.

Now we have to add this resolver to our resolver configuration, so that it can be used on the front end.

_**Go to `/app-api/src/resolvers/configureResolvers.ts`**_

We'll import the resolver we just created.

```typescript
import { dataExportResolver } from './dataExport'
```

And also add it to the Resolvers object. We've made a query, so this line will be added to the query methods.

```typescript
dataExport: dataExportResolver(store),
```

### Generating code

Once we have our backend code in place, we need to run a couple of commands to generate glue types and methods.

_**On the command line, navigate to `/services/app-graphql`.**_  
_**Run `yarn gqlgen`**_

> _**Again on the command line, navigate to `/services/app-api`**_  

Reviewer: 🤔 I *think* running `yarn prisma generate` should just happen first?  In the example you give, I don't think there is a db change, so you could prisma generate right away.  I mention this because once a developer runs the command they get the benefit of those new types while building the api part, which could be helpful to them.

Author: @haworku when you say "happen first"...where do you think the command should be run in the process described in the doc?

Reviewer: I believe it is the first step to the graphql docs. 

If you make a change the prisma schema at all as part of your development of the api you would need to run `yarn prisma generate` to get the new client and types. If you don't make schema changes, you can skip the script all together. The dev tool is already running that command to run the api.  That's my understanding at least. @mojotalantikite please correct me if I am mistaken.

Reviewer 2: There's actually a couple things that need to happen. `yarn prisma generate` will generate the schemas, but it won't make a new SQL command that alters the DB. 

If you need to add anything to the schema and alter the DB, you can do that and work with it locally using [`prisma db push`](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-migrate/db-push). Once you know you have the change you want with the schema, you can do [`prisma migrate dev --name name_of_db_change`](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-migrate/get-started). That will generate the SQL code that runs in the DB to change the tables properly for your new schema.

_**Run `yarn prisma generate`**_

### Getting data on the front end

> One result of the `generate` commands is to create a hook that we can use on the front end to call our new resolver. The name of the hook will be of the form _useWhatYourResolverIsCalledQuery_ (it will end with "Mutation" if that's what you've created). You can pull it in and get data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One result of the `yarn gqlgen` command is a typed [`useQuery` React hook](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/queries/) that we can use on the front end to call our new resolver. The name of the hook will be of the form _useWhatYourResolverIsCalledQuery_ (it will end with "Mutation" if that's what you've created). You can pull it in and get data.
```

```typescript
import { useDataExportQuery } from '../../gen/gqlClient'
const { data, loading, error } = useDataExportQuery()
```

> ## Lambda

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Lambda

We use AWS Lambda to build RESTful endpoints in our application. When we create a lambda handler, serverless will add a new Lambda function for us in AWS. If we configure it correctly, that function will have access to things like our postgres database, which itself is hosted on AWS.
```

### Serverless configuration

> When we create a handler, we're telling serverless to create a new Lambda function for us in AWS. If we configure it correctly, that function will have access to things like our postgres database, which itself is hosted on AWS. Here's one existing handler configuration, found in `/services/app-api/serverless.yml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of serverless configuration for a Lambda that handles an api request, found in `/services/app-api/serverless.yml`.
```

Deleted sections were just moved up. Was trying to match what you did in the GraphQL section - you had an introduction paragraph first.

```yaml
reports:
    handler: src/handlers/reports.main
    events:
        - http:
              path: reports
              method: get
              cors: true
              authorizer: aws_iam
    layers:
        - !Ref PrismaClientEngineLambdaLayer
        - arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:901920570463:layer:aws-otel-nodejs-amd64-ver-1-2-0:1
    vpc:
        securityGroupIds:
            - ${self:custom.sgId}
        subnetIds: ${self:custom.privateSubnets}
```

The code that runs when this handler is called is in `/app-api/src/handlers/reports.ts`.

The handler points to `/app-api/src/handlers/reports.main`. We're telling the handler where to look for the file that contains the code that will run in the lambda (`src/handlers`) and also the name of the function (`main`). In `reports.ts` the exported handler is called `main`. The location and exported method of `reports.ts` have to match what's specified on the `handler:` line in our YAML file.

We also provide a `path`. This handler will run when someone navigates to the site's base name, slash reports. For prod, it would be `https://mc-review.onemac.cms.gov/reports`.

> The `authorizer` line tells AWS that this method can only be invoked by a user who is logged in and has permissions set in AWS IAM. This will typically flow from someone being a state or CMS user, with permission to interact with the main site.

Reviewer 3: How or where do we specify which type of user has access to this endpoint? In the reports endpoint I believe it is restricted to CMS users?

> The `authorizer` line tells AWS that this method can only be invoked by a user who is logged in and has permissions set in AWS IAM. This will typically flow from someone being a state or CMS user, with permission to interact with the main site.

Author: This is another question I think @mojotalantikite can answer.

> The `authorizer` line tells AWS that this method can only be invoked by a user who is logged in and has permissions set in AWS IAM. This will typically flow from someone being a state or CMS user, with permission to interact with the main site.

Reviewer 2: so we actually can't restrict by the user type directly in the API Gateway right now with the AWS IAM authorizer type we're using. If we moved to using an authorizer that we had more control over we could do that, but in it's current implementation it's just going to let anyone through that has signed in. 

If we want to limit someone by user type at this point, we'd need to do it in the handler itself. Roughly, we'd get the user from Cognito, check it's type, and then allow/deny access based on it being a state or CMS user. Maybe we should write some middleware that does that?

`layers` tie this handler to services that it needs. In this case, it needs database access, so there's a Prisma layer, and it's also being tied to `otel`, our open telemetry service, for observability.

> In order to communicate with those layers, we have to specify which `vpc`, or virtual private cloud, this handler will run within.

Reviewer 3: `layers` and `vpc` are still a bit mysterious to me. Is there anyway to flesh this out more? For instance, the need for a `prisma` layer to access the service is straightforward, but where would I go in order to find the specifics for the layers `PrismaClientEngineLambdaLayer` and `arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:901920570463:layer:aws-otel-nodejs-amd64-ver-1-2-0:1` for `otel`. Same question for `vpc`.

Author: These lines contain the sum total of my knowledge of layers and vpcs 😆  @mojotalantikite is there a quick summary you can think to include here?

Reviewer 2: Sure! So VPCs we don't have access to control at CMS, so we have one in each environment that was provisioned for us by them. The identifiers we need are stored in Parameter Store, and we use those to configure the VPC that some of these lambdas need access to. The gist of it is: if a handler needs to talk to the DB, it needs to have the VPC config.

That's a good point about the Prisma client engine layer, we don't really have docs about that. It's a layer that is built from the `app-api/scripts/prepare-prisma-layer.sh` script, which is needed to communicate to the DB.

As for the OTEL layer, that is one that is made by [AWS and we just import.](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/lambda/lambda-js) We can write some docs about it -- there's actually an updated layer that we might want to schedule an upgrade to our OTEL tooling for.

> API Gateway handlers have a hard timeout of 30 seconds, which we cannot modify or exceed. If your function takes longer than that to run, you'll need to put some of the functionality in non-ApiGateway Lambdas and consume the output in your endpoint/handler.

Reviewer: Great little detail. Kind of thing its good to know before you start 😆
